# SOURCE BOOK: jaimini-astrology_compress.pdf


--- PAGE 1 of 45 ---
ASTROSPHERA 
2007 
Jyotish Vidya 
Jaimini Sutras 
Edited by Rodolfo Veronese 
H T T P : / / W W W . A S T R O S P H E R A . B L O G S P O T . C O M

--- PAGE 2 of 45 ---
Adhyaya 1 - Pada 1 
SU. 1. Upadesam vyakhyasyamah. 
I shall now explain my work for the benefit of the readers and 
shall give them proper instructions to understand the subject. 
SU. 2. Abhipasyanti rikshani. 
The zodiacal signs aspect each other (in their front). 
SU. 3. Parswabhe cha. 
Excepting the next zodiacal signs to them. 
SU. 4. Thannishthascha tadvat. 
Those planets which occupy such signs will also aspect the 
planets found in such houses. 
SU. 5.  Darabhagyasulasthargala nidhyatuh. 
The fourth, second and eleventh places (or planets in them) 
from the aspecting body are Argalas. 
SU. 6. Kamasthathu bhuyasa papanam. 
Malefics in the third from the aspecting planet give rise to evil 
Argala. 
SU. 7. Rihpha neechakamastha virodhinah. 
Planets in the tenth, twelfth and third from Argala cause 
obstruction to such Argala. 
SU. 8. Na nyuna vibalascha. 
If planets obstructing Argala are fewer or less powerful than 
those causing Argala, then the power of Argala cannot be 
affected. 
SU. 9. Pragvastrikone. 
The houses or planets in trikonas (5 and 9) similarly influence 
the Argala. 
SU. 10. Vipareetam kethoh. 
In the case of Ketu1 the formation of Argala and obstruction to it 
must be calculated in the reverse order. 
SU. 11. Atmadhikaha kaladibhirna bhogassaptanamashtamva. 
Of the seven planets from the Sun to Saturn, or the eight 
planets from the Sun to Rahu, whichever gets the highest 
number of degrees becomes the Atmakaraka. 
                                                     
1 South Node.

--- PAGE 3 of 45 ---
3 
 
SU. 12. Saeeshtay bandhamokshayoh. 
Atmakaraka gives bad and good results by virtue of malefic and 
benefic dispositions such as debility, exaltation, etc. 
SU. 13. Thasyanusaranadamatyaha. 
The planet who is next in kalas or degrees to Atmakaraka will 
become Amatyakaraka. 
SU. 14. Tasya bhratha. 
The planet who gets the highest number of degrees next to 
Amatyakaraka becomes Bhratrukaraka or gets lordship over 
brothers. 
SU. 15. Tasya mriatha. 
The planet who gets the highest number of degrees next to 
Bhratrukaraka becomes lord of the mother or Matrukaraka. 
SU. 16. Tasya putraha. 
The planet who is next in power in degrees to Matrukaraka 
becomes the lord of the children or Putrakaraka. 
SU. 17. Thasya gnathihi. 
The planet who gets less degrees than those of Putrakaraka 
becomes Gnathikaraka or lord of the cousins. 
SU. 18. Thnsya darascha. 
The planet who gets less degrees than the gnathikaraka 
becomes Darakaraka or lord of wife. 
SU. 19. Matra saha putrameke samamananthi. 
Some Acharyas or authors hold that the Matru and 
putrakarakas may be represented by one and the same planet, 
that is these two Bhavas, lordship of mother and children may 
be judged by the same planet. 
SU. 20. Bhaginyurathassyalaha kaniyajjananee cheti. 
Some say that from Kuja2 should be ascertained particulars 
regarding brothers and sisters, brother-in law, younger brothers 
and step-mothers. Some others hold that predictions relating to 
step-mother should be made from the 8th house. However this 
latter view is not approved by all. 
SU. 21. Mathuladayo bandhavo matrusojatiya ittyuttarataha. 
From Mercury3 should be ascertained details relating to 
maternal uncles, maternal aunts and other maternal relations. 
                                                     
2 Mars. 
3 Also known as Budha.

--- PAGE 4 of 45 ---
SU. 22. Pitamahou pathiputraviti gurumukhadeva janiyat. 
From Guru4 the paternal grandmother and grandfather, the 
husband and children must be found out. 
SU. 23. Patnipitarau swasurou matamaha ityante vasinaha. 
From the next planet from Guru, viz., Sukra5, the parents of the 
wife, or parents-in-law, paternal and maternal aunts, maternal 
grandfather and grandmother, and Ante Vasina or disciples 
must be found out. 
SU. 24. Monzdojyayan Graheshu. 
Among all the planets, Ravi6, Chandra7, Kuja, Budha, Guru, 
Sukra and Sani, Saturn is the least powerful. 
SU. 25. Pracheevruttirvishamabheshu. 
In all odd signs the counting must be in the right direction. 
SU. 26. Paravrutyottareshu. 
In even signs the counting must be in the reverse order. 
SU. 27. Nakwachit. 
In some places or signs this does not apply. 
SU. 28. Nathaanthahasamapruyenu. 
Many of the writers are of opinion, that the Rasi8 Dasa (period 
of the sign) extends over such number of years which are 
counted from the Rasi to the place where its lord is located. 
SU. 29. Yavadeesasrayam padamrzukshanam. 
Arudha Lagna9 is the point obtained by counting as many signs 
from the place of lord of Lagna as the lord of Lagna is removed 
from Lagna. 
SU. 30. Swasthe daraha. 
If Lagnadhipathi is in the 4th, then the 7th becomes Pada 
Lagna. 
                                                     
4 Jupiter. 
5 Venus. 
6 The Sun. 
7 The Moon. 
8 The Natal Chart is called Rasi. 
9 The Ascending sign of the Rasi is called Lagna, but this terminology 
also applies to every point of reference you create. For example, if you 
are delineating the brothers, the third sign can be accounted as a 
Lagna for the topic of kindred. In the same fashion, the Rasi for the 
Atmakaraka is the sign where this planet is in.

--- PAGE 5 of 45 ---
5 
 
SU. 31. Sutasthe janma. 
If the lord of Lagna is in the 7th from Lagna, then Lagna itself 
becomes Arudha Lagna. 
SU. 32. Sarvatrasavarna bhavarasayaha. 
All Rasis and Bhavas are studied by Varnada Lagna. Hence it 
will be explained in this aphorism. 
SU. 33. Nagrahaha. 
Varnada is not to be applied for the planets but only for Rasis. 
In all the sutras of Jaimini, the Ka, Ta, Pa, Yadi sutra of 
interpreting the language should not be applied to the planets. 
The author means that the grahas or the planets are designated 
by their various names and never by the letter system. 
SU. 34. Yavadwivekamavrittirbhanam. 
Divide Rasi Dasas by 12 and distribute the same to the 12 Rasis 
in proportion to the Rasi Dasa periods to get sub-periods. The 
counting should be from right to left if Lagna is odd sign and 
vice versa if even. 
SU. 35. Horadayaha siddhaha. 
From the general literature of Astrology learn all the details 
about Hora, Drekkana, Saptamsa, Navamsa, Dwadasamsa, 
Trimsamsa, Shashtiamsa, etc.

--- PAGE 6 of 45 ---
Adhyaya 1 - Pada  2 
 
SU. 1. Adhaswamsograhanam. 
Having determined the Atmakaraka from among the several planets, 
ascertain the results of his Navamsa position. 
SU. 2. Panchamooshikamarjaraha. 
If the Atmakaraka occupies Mesha10 Navamsa, then the person will be 
subjected to the fears and bites of rats, cats, and other similar animals. 
SU. 3. Tathra chatushpadaha. 
If Atmakaraka is in Taurus Navamsa, there will be fear from 
quadrupeds. 
SU. 4. Mrithyow kandooh sthotilyam cha. 
If Atmakaraka occupies Mithuna11 the person will suffer from 
corpulence, itches and cutaneous eruptions. 
SU. 5. Dure jalakushtadih. 
If the Atmakaraka occupies Kataka12 Navamsa, dangers and troubles 
come from watery places and leprosy. 
SU. 6. Seshahas wapadani. 
If the Atmakaraka joins Simha13 Navamsa, troubles will come through 
dogs and such canine animals. 
SU. 7. Mrithyuvajjayognikanascha. 
If Atmakaraka is in Kanya14 Navamsa, the native will suffer from fire, 
itches, and corpulence. 
SU. 8. Labhe vanijyam. 
If the Atmakaraka joins Thula15 Navamsa, the person will make much 
money by merchandise. 
SU. 9. Arrajalasareesrupaha sthanyachanischa. 
If the Atmakaraka joins Vrischikamsa16, the person will have fears and 
dangers from watery animals, snakes and he will also have no milk 
from his mother. 
                                                     
10 Aries. 
11 Gemini. 
12 Cancer. 
13 Leo. 
14 Virgo. 
15 Libra. 
16 Scorpio.

--- PAGE 7 of 45 ---
7 
 
SU. 10. Same vahanaducchaccha kramatpatanam. 
If the Atmakaraka joins the Navamsa of Dhanus17, the person will have 
suffering and dangers from falls, .from conveyances, horses, etc., and 
also from elevated places like trees, houses, hills and mountains. 
SU. 11.  Jalachara khechara kheta kandu dushtagranthayascha 
riphay. 
If the Atmakaraka joins Makara18 the person will have troubles and 
sorrows from aquatic animals from fierce birds, skin diseases, large 
wounds and glandular expansions. 
SU. 12. Tatakadayo dharmay. 
If the Atmakaraka occupies Kumbha19 Navamsa the person will do 
charities in the shape of constructing wells, tracks, topes or gardens, 
temples and dharmasalas or chatrams. 
SU. 13. Uchhe dharmanityata kaivalyam cha. 
If the Atmakaraka occupies Meenamsa20, the person will be fond of 
virtuous deeds and charities, and will take residence in Swargadi Lokas 
or will attain to the final bliss or what is called by the Sanskrit writers 
Moksha or final emancipation or freedom from rebirths. 
SU. 14. Tatra ravou rajakaryaparaha. 
If the Sun occupies the Karakamsa21, the person will be fond of public 
service and will work in political activities. 
SU. 15. Poornendusukrayorbhogee vidyajeevee cha. 
If Full Moon and Venus join Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, the person 
will command great wealth and all comforts attendant on wealth and 
he will also earn money and live by the profession of education. 
SU. 16. Dhatuvadee kountayudho vahnijeevee cha bhoume. 
When Kuja joins Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, the person becomes 
great in the preparation of various medical mixtures, will bear arms 
like kuntayudha and other weapons, and live by profession involving 
preparations in or near fire. 
SU. 17. yanijatantuvayaha silpino vyavaharavidascha soumye. 
If Budha conjoins the Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, the persons 
become merchants, weavers and manufacturers of clothes, artists and 
persons clever in preparing curios, and those well versed in the affairs 
of social and political matters. 
                                                     
17 Sagittarius. 
18 Capricorn. 
19 Aquarius. 
20 Pisces. 
21 KARAKAMSHA is the sign in which the atmakaraka is placed in navamsha.

--- PAGE 8 of 45 ---
SU. 18. Kairmagnunanishta vedavidascha jeevay. 
When Guru joins the Navamsa with Atmakaraka, the person will be 
well versed in Vedic or religious rituals, will have religious wisdom, 
well known in the rules of sacrificial functions and will have good 
knowledge in Vedanta and will be a religious man. 
SU. 19. Rajakeeyaha kaminaha satendriyascha sttkre. 
If Sukra joins the Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, the person will become 
a great official or political personage, will be fond of many women and 
will retain vitality and sexual passions till he is hundred years old. 
SU. 20. Prasiddhakarma jeevaha sanow. 
If Sani joins Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, he will produce a famous 
person in his own line of business. 
SU. 21. Dhanushkaschouvrascha jangalikalohayantrinascha rahow. 
If Rahu joins the Atmakaraka in Navamsa the person will live by the 
skilful use of warlike instruments, he will earn bread as thief and 
dacoit; he becomes a doctor dealing in poisons, manufacturer of gold, 
silver, copper and other metallic machinery. 
SU. 22. Gajavyavaharinaschourrascha kethau. 
'When Ketu joins the Atmakaraka in the Navamsa the persons born 
under such combination trade in elephants or become thieves and 
robbers. 
SU. 23. Ravirahubhyam sarpanidhranam. 
If Ravi and Rahu join Atmakaraka in the Navamsa the person dies by 
snake-bites. 
SU. 24. Subhadrislhte thannivrittihi. 
If benefics aspect the Yoga mentioned above, there will be no deaths 
from snake-bites. 
SU. 25. Subhamatrasambandhajjjanagulikaha. 
If Ravi and Rahu join Atmakaraka in the Navamsa and have only 
beneficial aspects the person will have no snake-bites, but will become 
a doctor who deals solely in poisonous matters. 
SU. 26. Kujarnatradrishtegrihadahako agnido va. 
If Ravi and Rahu join Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, and have the evil 
aspect of Kuja, the person will burn houses or lend fire and other help 
to the incendiaries. 
SU. 27. Stukradrish te na dahaha. 
If Ravi and Rahu join Atmakaraka in the Navamsa and have the aspect 
of Sukra, the person will not burn the houses himself, but will lend fire 
to the rogues who do it.

--- PAGE 9 of 45 ---
9 
 
SU. 28. Gurudrishte twasameepagrihat. 
If Ravi and Rahu join Atmakaraka in the Navamsa, but have the aspect 
of Guru alone, the person will burn houses at a distance from his own 
house. 
SU. 29. Sagulike vishado vishahato va. 
If the Karaka Navamsa falls in Gulikakala22 or the time governed by 
Gulika, the person will administer poison to others and kill them or be 
killed by such administrations of poison by others. 
SU. 30.  Chandrudrishtau chorapahritadharnaschouro va. 
If Chandra aspects the Atmakaraka Navamsa falling in Gulikakala, the 
person will be a receiver of stolen property or will become himself a 
thief. 
SU. 31. Budhamatradrishte brihadbeejaha. 
If the Atmakaraka Navamsa falls in Gulikakala and possesses only the 
aspect of Budha, the person will have enlarged testicles. 
SU. 32. Tathra kethow papadrishte karnachchedaha kurnarogo va. 
If Ketu joins the Atmakaraka Navamsa the person will have his ears 
cut off or will have serious ear complaints. 
SU. 33. Sukradrishte deekshitaha. 
If Atmakaraka and Ketu in the Navamsa, have the aspect of Sukra, the 
person will become a Deekshita or performer of Yagnyas or religious 
sacrifices. 
SU. 34. Buidhasanidrishte nirveeryaha. 
If the Atmakaraks with Ketu in the Navamsa has the aspects of Budha 
and Sani, the bind of an impotent or eunuch should be predicted. 
SU. 35. Btrdhasukradrishte pounah puniko dasipttree va. 
If the Karakamsa Rasi with Ketu has the aspect of Sukra and Budha, 
the person will talk repeating and repeating the same ideas or will be 
the son of a prostitute or dancing woman. 
SU. 36. Sanidrishte tapaswee preshyo va. 
If the Karakamsa with Ketu has the aspect of Sani, he will become a 
Tapaswi or recluse or be a dependent and servant under somebody. 
                                                     
22 Similarly, the GULIKAKALA is calculated based on the time of the day 
and night, which will decide the position of the Gulika in the chart  
A day of 24 hours is said to comprise of 60 ghatis with 30 ghatis during 
the day and 30 ghatis during the night. Gulika rises during the 26th, 
22nd, 18th, 14th, 10th, 6th, 2nd ghati starting from Sunday sunrise till 
Saturday. During the night it rises in reverse order which is 2nd, 6th, 
10th and so on, starting from Thursday till Wednesday. These periods 
of 1.5 hours are generally considered inauspicious for beginning any 
new ventures.

--- PAGE 10 of 45 ---
SU. 37. Sanimatradrish te sanyasabhasaha. 
If in the above combination there is only the aspect of Sani and there 
is no other planetary aspect, he will put on the appearance of a sanyasi 
but will not be a true or real sanyasi. He will be an impostor. 
SU. 38. Tatra ravisukradrishte rajapreshyah. 
If Ravi and Sukra aspect the Karakamsa the person will be employed 
by royal or political personages to do their work. He will be their 
confident. 
SU. 39. Ripphe budhe budhedrishte va mandavat. 
If the tenth from the Karaka Navamsa possesses the aspect of Budha, 
he will get similar results as have been given by Sani. 
SU. 40. Shzubhadrishte stheyaha. 
If in the 10th from Karakamsa, there is beneficial aspect, the person 
will be one of great determination and never capricious. 
SU. 41. Ravow gurumatradrishzte gopalahu. 
If the 10th from the Karakamsa, there is Ravi possessing only the 
aspect of Guru and no other aspects, the person will have success 
through the sales of cow, bulls and other cattle. 
SU. 42. Dare chandrasukradigyogatprasadaha. 
If the lord of the 4th from the Karakamsa is joined or aspected by 
Chandra and Sukra, the person will be blessed with storeyed houses. 
SU. 43. Ucchagrahe api. 
If the fourth from the Karakamsa is occupied by an exalted planet, the 
person will have many fine and splendid houses. 
SU. 44. Rahusan ibhyam silagriham. 
If the fourth from the Karakamsa is occupied by Rahu and Sani, the 
houses will be constructed with rough stones not well plastered. 
SU. 45. Kuja Ketubhyamaishtikam. 
If the 4th from Karakamsa is occupied by Kuja and Ketu, the houses 
will be constructed of bricks, lumps of earth. 
SU. 46. Guruna daravam. 
If the 4th from Karakamsa is occupied by Guru wooden houses will be 
constructed by the native. 
SU. 47. Tharnamravina. 
If the 4th is occupied by the Sun, the houses will be constructed from 
thatch and grasses. 
SU. 48. Same shubhayogaddharmanityaha satyavaadee 
gtinubhaktascha. 
If the 9th from Karakamsa is occupied or aspected by benefics, the 
person will have truth as his ideal and motto. He will be righteous in

--- PAGE 11 of 45 ---
11 
 
conduct, lover of truth and will be faithful and dutiful to elders, 
preceptors and Gurus. 
SU. 49. A nyatha papaihi. 
If the 9th from Karakamsa has evil conjunction or aspects, he will be 
quite the reverse in character. He will be a liar, uncharitable and 
sinful, and will have no faith and respect for Gurus and elders. 
SU. 50. Sanirahubhyam gutrudrohaha. 
If Sani and Rahu occupy or aspect the 9th from Karakamsa, the person 
will become ungrateful to Gurus and will prove a traitor to them. 
SU. 51. Ravigurubhyam g•irovavisvasaha. 
If Guru and Ravi occupy or aspect the 9th from Karakamsa, he will not 
love his parents, elders and preceptors. 
SU. 52. Tatra bhrigwongaraka varge paradarikaha. 
If the 9th from Karakamsa falls in one of the shadvargas of Sukra and 
Kuja, he will be fond of others' wives. 
SU. 53. Drigyogabhyamndhikabhyamamuranam. 
If Kuja and Sukra join or aspect the 9th from Karakamsa, the person 
will have the evil habit of seducing and keeping illegal gratifications 
till the end of his life. 
SU. 54. Ketuna pratibandhaha. 
If the 9th from Karakamsa has the conjunction or aspect of Ketu, he 
will be fond of women for some time and then give up the bad 
tendency. 
SU. 55. Guruna strainaha. 
If the 9th from Karakamsa has the conjunction or aspect of Guru, he 
will be excessively fond of other women. 
SU. 56. Rahunarthanivrittihi. 
If the 9th from Karakamsa is joined or aspected by Rahu, the person 
will lose all his wealth by female excesses. 
SU. 57. Labhe chandragurubhyam sundaree. 
If Guru and Chandra occupy the 7th from the Karakamsa, the wife will 
be handsome and loving. 
SU. 58. Rahuna vidhava. 
If the 7th from the Karakamsa joins with Rahu or has his aspect, the 
person will have widows for connection. 
SU. 59. Sanina vayodhika roginee tapaswinee va. 
If the 7th from Karakamsa is occupied or aspected by Sani, the wife 
will be older or will be sickly or will be a tapaswini or a woman who 
will be engaged in religious meditations.

--- PAGE 12 of 45 ---
SU. 60. Kujena vikalangee. 
If Kuja joins or aspects the 7th from Karakamsa, the wife will be 
deformed or there will be defect in her limbs. 
SU. 61. Ravina swakule gupta cha23. 
If Ravi occupies or aspects the 7th from Karakamsa, the wife will be 
protected from the members of the husband's family and will have no 
defects in her limbs.  
SU. 62. Budhena kalavatee. 
If Budha joins or aspects the 7th from Karakamsa, the wife will be well 
versed in music, arts, dancing and other fine accomplishments. 
SU. 63. Chape chandrenanavrite dese. 
If Chandra occupies the 4th from Karakamsa the first sexual union of 
the wives, mentioned in the above sutras, will take place in an open 
place uncovered by root or ceiling. 
SU. 64. Karmani pape shooraha. 
If the 3rd from the Karakamsa contains evil planets, the person 
becomes courageous and a warrior. 
SU. 65. Subhe kataraha. 
If the 3rd from Karakamsa has benefics, the person becomes a coward. 
SU. 66. Mrityuchintyayoh pape karshakafha. 
If the 3rd and 6th from Karakamsa are occupied by malefics, the 
person lives by ploughing and agriculture. 
SU. 67. Same gurow viseshena. 
If Guru occupies the 9th from Karakamsa, he will become a great 
agriculturist. 
SU. 68. Ucche shurbhe shubhalokaha. 
If benefics occupy 12 from Karakamsa, the person goes to superior 
Lokas. 
SU. 69. Ketow kaivalyam. 
If a benefic occupies Karakamsa; the person will have Moksha or Final 
Bliss. 
SU. 70. Kriyochapayorviseshena. 
If Karakamsa is Mesha or Dhanus with benefics there, the subject gets 
Moksha. If Mesha or Dhanus happens to be the 12th from Karakamsa 
and Ketu is there, the person will get Moksha. 
                                                     
23 Another version reads as Ravina kata gutpthacl Ja.

--- PAGE 13 of 45 ---
13 
 
SU. 71. Papair anyatha. 
If the 12th from the Karakamsa is occupied by evil planets, he will go 
to hell and will have no Bliss. 
SU. 72. Raviketubhyam shive bhaktihi. 
If Ravi and Ketu are in Karakamsa, the person will become a Saivite or 
one who worships Shiva. 
SU. 73. Chandrena gauryam. 
If Chandra joins Karakamsa, the person will worship Gouri, wife of 
Shiva. 
SU. 74. Sukrena lukshmyom. 
If Sukra joins Karakamsa, he will worship Lakshmi spouse of Vishnu. 
SU. 75. Kujena skande. 
If Kuja occupies Karakamsa, he becomes a worshipper of Skanda or 
Shanmukha the warrior son of Shiva. 
SU. 76. Budhasanibhyam vishnow. 
If Budha and Sani join Karakamsa, he will worship Vishnu. 
SU. 77. Guruna sambasive. 
It Karakamsa is joined by Guru, he will worship Sambasiva or Parvati 
and Paramesvara. 
SU. 78. RahurJa thamasyam durgayam cha. 
If Rahu joins Karakamsa, the person will worship evil spirits and 
Durga. 
SU. 79. Ketuna ganese skande chaz. 
If Ketu joins Karakamsa, the person becomes a devotee of Ganesa and 
Kumaraswami. 
SU. 80. Paparkshe mande kshudradevata. 
If Sani occupies the Karakamsa falling in an evil sign, the person 
becomes a great devotee of evil spirits. 
SU. 81. Sukre cha. 
If Sukra occupies the evil Karakamsa, the person will worship devils, 
spirits, etc. 
SU. 82. Amatyadasay chaivam. 
If the 6th from Amatyakaraka joins evil Karakamsa, the person devotes 
himself to the worship of evil spirits. 
SU. 83. Trikone popadwaye mantrikaha. 
If the 5th and 9th from the Karakamsa are occupied by evil planets,. 
the person becomes a Mantrika or magician and will be able to 
exercise devils and evil spirits.

--- PAGE 14 of 45 ---
SU. 84. Papadrishte nigrahakaha. 
If the evil planets in the 5th and 9th from Karakamsa have evil 
conjunctions or aspects, the person becomes a great Mantraic and will 
be able to root out all evil spirits. 
SU. 85. ShubhadrishtenuJgrahakaha. 
If the evil planets in the 5th and 9th from Karakamsa have beneficial 
aspects or conjunction, the person will help the people and do them 
good. 
SU. 86. Sukrendou sukradrishte rasavadee. 
If Sukra aspects Karakamsa and the Moon, the person becomes an 
alchemist. 
SU. 87. Budhadrishte bhishak. 
If Karakamsa and Chandra have the aspect of Budha, the person 
becomes a medical man. 
SU. 88. Chape chandre sukr.adrishte pandusswithee. 
If Moon is in the 4th from Karakamsa and has the aspect of Sukra, the 
person will suffer from white leprosy. 
SU. 89. Kujadrishte maharogaha. 
If Kuja aspects Chandra in the 4th house from the Karakamsa, the man 
will have serious form of leprosy. 
SU. 90. Kethtudrishte neelakushtam. 
If Chandra in the 4th from the Karakamsa is aspected by Ketu, the 
person will have black leprosy. 
SU. 91. Tata mritow va kujarahubhyam kshayaha. 
If the 4th or 5th from Karakamsa is joined by Kuja and Rahu, the 
person will suffer from consumption or pthysis. 
SU. 92. Chandradrishte nischayena. 
If such Kuja and Rahu, started in the above sutra, have the inner 
aspect, certainly the person will have serious form of consumption. 
SU. 93. Kujena pitakadihi. 
If the 4th or 5th from the Karakamsa is occupied by Kuja, the person 
will suffer from excessive sweating, cuts, itches or boils and sores in 
the body. 
SU. 94. Ketuna grahani jalarogo va. 
If Ketu joins the 4th or 5th from Karakamsa, the man will suffer from 
Grahani or a kind of glandular disease and from watery diseases like 
dropsy, diabetes, loose motions, etc. 
SU. 95. Rahugulikabhyam kshudravishani. 
If the 4th or 5th from the Karakamsa is joined by Rahu and Gulika, 
there will be suffering from the poisonous effects of rats, cats, etc.

--- PAGE 15 of 45 ---
15 
 
SU. 96. Tatra sanow dhanushkaha. 
If the 4th from the Karakamsa is joined by Sani, the person becomes 
an expert in inflicting wounds. This means he will be skilled in the use 
of deadly arms. 
SU. 97. Ketuna ghutikoyanthree. 
If Ketu joins the 4th from Karakamsa, the person becomes skilful in 
preparing clocks, watches and other time indicating machines. 
SU. 98. Budhena paramahamso lagudee va. 
If the 4th from the Karakamsa is combined by Budha, the person 
becomes a paramahamsa or a great yogi, or one who bears Palasa 
Danda, etc., showing Brahmacharya or Sanyasayoga of particular kind. 
SU. 99. Rahuna lohayantree. 
If the 4th from the Karakamsa is occupied by Rahu, he will become 
proficient in preparing machinery out of metals or a clever mechanic. 
SU. 100. Ravina khadgee. 
If Ravi joins the 4th from Karakamsa, the person lives by his sword. 
SU. 101. Kujena Kunthee. 
If Kuja joins the 4th from Karakamsa, he will live by the profession of 
using Kuntayudha, maces and long sticks. 
SU. 102. Matapitroschandragturubhyam grantha. 
If Chandra and Guru are in the Karakamsa or in the 5th from it, the 
person will become an author and will live by writing books. 
SU. 103. Sukrena kinchidoonam. 
If Chandra and Sukra join Karakamsa or the 5th house from it, the 
person becomes an ordinary author. 
SU. I 04. Bzidhena tato api. 
The person becomes still less famous than in the above Sutra if Budha 
joins Chandra instead of Sukra in Karakamsa or the 5th from it. 
SU. 105. Sukrena kavirwagmee kavyagnascha. 
If Sukra joins Karakamsa or the 5th from it, the person becomes a 
great poet; an eloquent speaker and well versed in poetry and 
literature. 
SU. I06. Guruna sarvavid granthikascha. 
If Guru joins the Karakamsa or the 5th from it, he will be an all-round 
man and will know many branches of knowledge, well read in sciences 
and author of various works. He becomes a versatile genius. 
SU. 107. Na vagmee. 
In the above combination of Guru, though a person becomes learned 
he will not become a good speaker nor possess powers of eloquence.

--- PAGE 16 of 45 ---
SU. 108. yissishyavaiyyakarano vedavedanthavichha. 
If Guru joins Karakamsa or the 5th from it, the person becomes 
learned in Vyakarana or Grammar, Vedic literature and Vedangas. 
SU. 109. Sabhajadaha sanina. 
If Sani joins Karakamsa or the 5th from it, the person becomes nervous 
in an assembly. 
SU. 110. Bzidhena nmeemamsakaha. 
If Budha joins 1st or 5th of Karakamsa, he w ill shine as a 
Meemamsaka. 
SU. 111. Kujena nayyayikaha. 
If Kuja joins 1st or 5th of Karakamsa, the person will become a great 
logician. 
SU. 112. Chandrena sankhyayogagnaha sahityagno gayakascha. 
If Chandra joins 1st or 5th of Karakamsa, the person becomes clever in 
sankhyasastra, learned in language, poetry, drama and attendant 
subjects, will have great proficiency in music and other 
accomplishments. 
SU. 113. Ravina vedanta geetagnascha. 
If Ravi combines in 1st or 5th of Karakamsa, the person will become a 
great Vedantist and musician. 
SU. 114. Ketuna ganithagnaha. 
If Ketu combines in above houses, the person becomes well versed in 
mathematics. 
SU. 115. Gurusambandhena sampradayasiddhih. 
If in the above combinations of planets, Guru joins or aspects, 
knowledge in the different branches will be well founded and regularly 
trained as per principles of those sciences. 
SU. 116. Bhagye chaivam. 
The results ascribed for planetary positions in the 1st and 5th from 
Karakamsa will also hold good for similar positions in the 2nd from 
Karakamsa. 
SU. 117. Sada chaiyamityeke. 
Bha stands for 4 and Ya denotes 1= 41, reversed we get 14, divided by 12, 
the remainder is 2. Sada =Sa stands for 7, Da stands for 8 = 78, in the 
inverse order we have 87, divided by 12, the balance is 3. By this the 
author means, all those results from the positions of the planets in the 
1st and the Karakamsa must or may be predicted by the combination 
of the above planets in the 2nd and 3rd houses from the Karakamsa. 
SU. 118. Bhagye kethowpapadrishte stabdhavak. 
Ketu in the 2nd from Karakamsa, aspected by evil planets, will make 
the person indistinct or a slow speaker.

--- PAGE 17 of 45 ---
17 
 
SU. 119. Swapitrupadadbhagyarogayoho papasamye 
kemadrumaha. 
If evil planets are found in the 2nd and 8th houses from Janma Lagna 
or the Arudha Lagna, the person will suffer from Kemadruma Yoga or 
combination for great poverty. The same results apply to the positions 
of planets in the 3rd from Karakamsa. 
SU. 120. Chandradrishtow viseshena. 
If Chandra aspects the evil planets in the above combination, the 
person suffers from abject poverty. The majority consider poverty as a 
great curse. 
SU. 121. Sarvesham chaiva pake. 
The results, mentioned in all the combinations above named, will be 
experienced during all the Dasas of Rasis or in their Antardasas or 
periods and subperiods of the zodiacal signs.

--- PAGE 18 of 45 ---
Adhyaya 1 – Pada 3 
SU. 1. Atha padam. 
Results based on Pada24 Lagna will be described in this chapter. 
SU. 2. yyaye sagrahe grahadrishteva sreemantaha. 
If the 11th house from Pada Lagna is occupied or aspected by 
planets, the person becomes a sreemanta or a wealthy man. 
SU. 3. Shubhairnyayallabhaha. 
When the 11th from Pada is aspected or joined by benefics the 
wealth will come from proper channels. The gains will be from 
fair and lawful means. 
SU. 4. Papairamargena. 
If the aspecting or joining planets in the above are evil, the 
wealth will come through sinful and illegal means. 
SU. 5. Ucchadibhirviseshath. 
If the 11th from Arudha Lagna is well combined and aspected by 
benefics or those in exaltation, moolathrikona, etc., the person 
will acquire plenty of wealth through justifiable means. 
SU. 6. Neeche grahadrigyogadwayadhikyam. 
If there are planets in the 12th house from Lagna, or Pada Lagna, 
the person will spend more than he earns. 
SU. 7. Ravirahusukrairnrupath. 
If Ravi, Rahu and Sukra occupy or aspect the 12th from Lagna or 
Pada Lagna, the person will lose money through kingly 
displeasure or fines and confiscations. 
SU. 8. Chandradrishtau nischayena. 
If in the combination in Sutra 7 there is the aspect of Chandra, 
the losses will certainly occur through governing bodies. 
SU. 9. Budhena gnathitho vivadadwa. 
If Budha occupies the 12th house from Pada or Lagna or aspects 
it, there will be losses from cousins, relations and litigations. 
                                                     
24 PADA LAGNA A term used mainly in Jaimini Astrology (q.v.). It is 
determined as follows: Find out the position (the house) in which the lord of 
the ascendant is posited. Count the number of houses the ascendant lord is 
posited away from the ascendant sign. The house situated, the same 
number of houses away from this sign is known as Pada Lagna.

--- PAGE 19 of 45 ---
19 
 
SU. 10. Guruna karamoolath. 
If Guru joins or aspects the 12th from Pada Lagna or Lagna, the 
man loses money by paying heavy government taxes. 
SU. 11. Kujasanibhyam bhratrumukhat. 
If the 12th from Lagna or Pada Lagna is joined or aspected by 
Kuja and Sani, the person will suffer losses through brothers. 
SU. 12. A etairvyaya aevam labhaha. 
The results have been given for the 12th house from Lagna or 
Pada Lagna and the various sources of losses have been 
indicated. If those planets are in the 11th house, then instead of 
losing money he will gain money through those sources which 
have been shown to the credit of planets. If the planets are in 
the 12th house, he will lose money; if they are in the 11th house, 
he will gain. 
SU. 13. Labhe rahuKetubhyamudararogaha. 
If the 7th house from Pada has conjunction or aspect of Rahu or 
Ketu, the person suffers from stomach diseases. 
SU. 14. Tatra Ketuna jhatithi jyanilingani. 
If Ketu occupies the 2nd house from Pada Lsgna, the person will 
display signs of old age though he may be young in years. He 
will show wrinkles beyond his proper age. If in the 6th house 
from Pada Lagna evil planets combine, he will become a thief. If 
the 2nd and 6th from Pada Lagna are occupied by benefics 
without evil aspects, the person will be a governor of many 
countries. 
SU. 15. Chandragurusukreshtt sreemantaha. 
If Chandra, Guru or Sukra occupy the 2nd from Pada Lagna, he 
will become a rich man. Here all these planets may be in the 
second or any one of them. 
SU. 16. Uchhena va. 
If the evil or good planets are in the second house from Pada in 
exaltation; the person becomes rich. 
SU. 17. Svamsavadanyatprayena. 
All the results explained in the above sutras will have 
application and reference as they have had in the Karakamsa. 
SU. 18. Lnbhapade kendre thrikone va sreeman taha. 
If the Arudha Lagna falls in the 7th from Janma Lagna or 
Karakamsa or in the Kendras or Konas the person becomes 
extremely rich.

--- PAGE 20 of 45 ---
SU. 19. Anyatha dusthe. 
If the Arudha Lagna does not fall in Kendra or Thrikona from 
Lagna but falls in Dusthas 6, 8 and 12, the results will be bad. 
SU. 20. Kendrathrikonopachayeshu dwayormaitree. 
If the Saptamarudha falls in Kendras, Thrikonas or the 
Upachayas from Janma Lagna, excepting the 6th which is 
classified as a Dusthana, there will be great agreement between 
the wife and the husband. 
SU. 21. Ripurogachintasti vairam. 
If the Arudha Bhavas fall in 6, 8 and 12 from Lagna, they denote 
evils to such Bhavas. 
SU. 22. Patneelabhayordishtya nirabhasargalaya. 
If the Arudha Lagna and the 7th from it have no obstructive 
Argalas, the person becomes fortunate. 
SU. 23. Shtibhargale dhanasamriddhihi.  
If Arudha Lagna and the 7th from it have beneficial Argalas, 
there will be plenty of money. 
SU. 24. Janmakalaghatikaswekadrishtasu rajanaha. 
If a planet aspects Hora Lagna, Ghatika Lagna and Janma Lagna, 
the person becomes a ruler or one equal to him. 
SU. 25. Patneelabhayoscha rasyamsakadrikanairva. 
If Chandra Lagna, Navamsa Lagna, Drekkana Lagna and the 7th 
houses from these three are aspected by one planet, the person 
becomes a great ruler or a Maharaja. 
SU. 26. Theshwekasminnyune nyunam. 
If out of the 6 Lagnas, viz., Lagna, Ghatika Lagna, Hora Lagna, 
Chandra Lagna, Navamsa Lagna and Drekkana Lagna- one 
planet sees five and not all the six, the person will have ordinary 
Rajayoga. 
SU. 27. Evamamsa to drikanatascha. 
If the Navamsa, Hora and Ghatika Lagnas or Drekkana, Hora 
and Ghatika Lagnas are aspected by one planet, there will be 
Rajayoga. 
SU. 28. Sukrachandrayormitho drishtayoh simhasthayorva 
yanavantaha. 
It Sukra and Chandra aspect each other or if they are in the 3rd 
house from each other, the person will be blessed with various 
conveyances.

--- PAGE 21 of 45 ---
21 
 
SU. 29. SukrakujaKetushu vaithanikaha. 
If Sukra, Kuja and Ketu have mutual aspects or if they are in the 
3rd house from each other the person will , have aristocratic 
surroundings from his ancestors. 
SU. 30. Swabhagyadaramatrubhavasameshu subheshu rajanaha 
If the 2nd, 4th and 5th Bhavas become equal to the Karaka or if 
benefics occupy them, the person becomes a Raja or his equal in 
position. 
SU. 31. Karmadusayoh papayoscha. 
If the 3rd and 6th houses from Atmakaraka are equal or if they 
are joined by malefics, there will be Rajayogas. 
SU. 32. Pitnulabhadhipaschaivam. 
If from the lords of Lagna. or 7th benefics occupy the 2nd, 4th, 
5th and 8th, there will be Rajayogas. 
SU. 33. Misre samaha. 
If there is a mixture of benefics and malefics in the above 
combination, the person will attain to ordinary positions. 
SU. 34. Daridro vipareethe. 
If evil planets occupy beneficial signs and benefics evil signs, the 
person will be poor. 
SU. 35. Matari gttrow sukre chandre va rajakeeyaha. 
If to the lord of Lagna or to the lord of 7th, the 5th house is 
occupied by Guru, Sukra or Chandra, the person becomes a high 
Government official and wields political powers. 
SU. 36. Karmani dase va pape senanyaha. 
If evil planets occupy the 3rd and 6th from the lords of Lagna or 
the lord of the 7th, the person becomes a military commander. 
SU. 37. Swapitrubhyam karmadasasthadrishtya tadeesadrishtya 
matrtunathadrishtya cha dheemantaha. 
If the lords of the 3rd and 6th from Lagna and Atmakaraka 
aspect the latter or if the planets in those houses aspect them 
and if the lord of the 5th aspect them, the person becomes 
extremely intelligent. 
SU. 38. Daresadrishtya sukhinaha. 
If Lagna and Karaka Lagna have the aspect of the lord of the 
4th, the person will be happy.

--- PAGE 22 of 45 ---
SU. 39. Rogesadrishtya daridraha. 
If the lord of the 8th from Lagna and Karaka Lagna aspect them, 
the person suffers from poverty. 
SU. 40. Ripunathadrislitya vyayaseelaha. 
If the lord of the 12th from Lagna and Karaka Lagna aspect 
them, then the person becomes a spendthrift or extravagant. 
SU. 41. Swamidrishtya prabalaha. 
If the lord of Lagna aspects the Lagna and if the lord of the 
Karaka Lagna aspects that Lagna, the person will have very good 
Rajayogas. 
SU. 42. Pacshadripubhagyayorgrahasamye bandhah konayo 
ripujayayoho keetayugmayordarariphcyoscha. 
If from Lagna-the 2nd and 12th or 5th or 9th or 12th and 6th or 
4th and 10th have the same number of planets posited, the 
person will be imprisoned. 
SU. 43. Sukradgounapadastho rahuh suryadrishlo netraha. 
If the 5th from Arudha Lagna is occupied by Rahu and Ravi 
aspects him, the person will lose his sight. 
SU. 44. Swadaragayoh sukrachandrayoratodyam rajachinhani cha. 
If Sukra and Chandra occupy the 4th from Atmakaraka, the 
person will have the paraphernalia of royalty, viz., Nagara or 
drums, Noubhat, music Chatras umbrellas, Chamaras or tufts of 
hair-fans which attendants keep waving about the royal 
personage and other signs and emblems of royal state.

--- PAGE 23 of 45 ---
23 
 
Adhyaya 1 – Pada 4 
SU. 1. Upapadam padam pitraitucharat: 
Take the 12th house from Lagna. Find out its Pada Lagna or 
Arudha Lagna. This becomes upapada.25 
SU. 2. Tatra papasya papayoge pravrajya daranasova. 
If the upapada has evil conjunction or aspect or if the 2nd from 
it has an evil planet, the wife will die or he will embrace 
pravrajya or sanyasa or asceticism. 
SU. 3. Upapadasyapyarudhatwadeva natra ravihi papaha. 
If the second from the Upapada is occupied by Ravi he does not 
become a malefic. 
SU. 4. Shzubhadrigyoganna. 
If, in the above combinations in Sutras 2 and 3 there are 
beneficial aspects or conjunctions, the evil results should not be 
predicted. 
SU. 5. Neeche daranasaha. 
If the 2nd from upapada falls in Neechamsa or has the 
conjunction of a Neecha or debilitated planet there will surely 
be death to wife in that evil period. 
SU. 6. Ucchey bahudaraha. 
If, in the 2nd from upapada there is an exalted planet or the 
second falls in an exalted Navamsa the person will have many 
wives. 
SU. 7. Yugme cha. 
If the 2nd from upapada falls in Mithuna, the person will have 
many wives. 
SU. 8. Tatra swamiyukte swarkshe va tadhhetazittnrayushi 
nirdaraha. 
If the 2nd from upapada is combined by the Atmakaraka or by 
the lord of that 2nd sign, the person will have no wife in the 
latter part of his life. 
                                                     
25 Do as the following: 
 1-get the 12nd sign; 
2 – Find where it ruler is; 
3 – Count the number of signs between the 12nd house and its ruler; 
4 – Count the same number of signs, but now from the from the sign 
of the ruler of the 12, and there is the Upapada.

--- PAGE 24 of 45 ---
SU. 9. Ucche thasmin,nuttamakuladdrira labhaha. 
If the lord of the 2nd from upapada is found in exaltation his 
wife will come from a respectable family. 
SU. 10. Neeche viparyayaha. 
If the lord of the second from the upapada joins a debilitated 
sign, the case will be reversed. 
SU. 11. Shubhasambandhatsundaree. 
If the second from the upapada has beneficial aspects or 
conjunctions, the wife will be a very beautiful woman. 
SU. 12. Rahusanibhyamapavadatyago naso va. 
If Sani and Rahu occupy or aspect the second house from 
upapada, the wife will die or will be rejected by the husband for 
social scandals. 
SU. 13. Stikrakettibhyam raktapradaraha. 
If Sukra and Ketu occupy or aspect the second from Upapada 
the wife will suffer from bloody discharges or blood complaints. 
SU. 14. Astisravo budhaKetubhyam. 
If the second from Upapada has the aspect or conjunction of 
Budha and Ketu the wife of the person will suffer from a disease 
wherein her bones will be melted and dropped down. 
SU.15. Saniraviruhubhirastijvaraha.  
If Sani, Ravi and- Rahu join or aspect the 2nd house from 
Upapada the wife will suffer from chronic or persistent low 
fever. 
SU. 16. BudhaKetubhyam sthaulyam. 
If the second from Upapada is aspected or conjoined by Ketu 
and Budha, the wife becomes clumsily corpulent. 
SU. 17. Budhakshetre mandarabhyam nasikarogaha. 
If the second from Upapada falls in one of the signs of Budha, 
viz., Mithuna or Kanya and possesses the aspect or conjunction 
of Sani and Kuja, the wife will suffer from nasal diseases or 
complaints of the nose. 
SU. 18. Ktijakshetre cha. 
If the second house from Upapada falls in one of Kuja's houses, 
viz., Mesha or Vrischika and has the aspect of Kuja and Sani, the 
same nasal diseases will trouble the man's wife.

--- PAGE 25 of 45 ---
25 
 
SU. 19. Gurusanibhyam karnarogo narahaka cha. 
If the second from Upapada falls in any one of the houses of 
Kuja or Budha and has the aspect or conjunction of Guru. and 
Sani, the wife will have ear complaints and also nervous 
diseases. 
SU. 20. Gururahubhyam dantarogaha. 
If the second from Upapada falls in any of the houses of Budha 
or Kuja and has the aspect of Guru and Rahu, the wife will suffer 
from tooth diseases. 
SU. 21. Sanirahubhyam kanyathulayoho Pangurvatarogo va. 
If the second from Upapada falls in Kanya or Thula and has the 
aspect of Sani and Rahu, the wife will be defective in limbs or 
will suffer from windy complaints. 
SU. 22. Subhadrigyoganna. 
If in the combinations given above there are beneficial 
conjunctions or aspects, the evils will disappear and bad should 
not be predicted. 
SU. 23. Saptamamsagrahebhyaschaivam. 
The above results may also be predicted by the 7th from 
Upapada; by the Kalatra Karakamsa and by the lords of those 
houses. 
SU. 24. Budhasanisukreshwanapatyaha. 
If the 7th from Upapada and its lord and the lord of the Kalatra 
Karakamsa and its lord-if all these four are aspected or 
conjoined by Budha Sani and Sukra, the person will have no 
issues. 
SU. 25. Putreshu ravirahugurubhirbahuputraha. 
If the 5th house from the 7th, from Upapada, its lord, the 
Kalatra Karakamsa and its lord have the aspects or conjunctions 
of Ravi, Rahu and Guru, the person will have many children. 
SU. 26. Chandrenaikaputraha. 
If in the combination given in Sutra 25, the fifth has only 
Chandra's aspect or conjunction, the person will have only one 
son. 
SU. 27. Misre yilambatnpuitraha. 
If the 5th in Sutra. 25 has combinations and aspects, both for 
many issues and no issues, then predict an issue later on in life.

--- PAGE 26 of 45 ---
SU. 28. Kujasanibhyam dattaputrahu. 
If the 5th house, in the combinations given in Sutra 25, has the 
aspect or conjunction of Kuja and Sani, the person will have an 
adopted son. 
SU. 29. Oje bahuputtaha. 
If the 5th from. the combinations mentioned in Sutra 25 falls in 
an odd sign, the person will have many children. 
SU. 30. Yugme alpaprajaha. 
If the 5th sign in the above combinations falls in even signs, 
there will be few issues. 
SU. 31. 
Gruhakramatkukshitadeesapanchamamsagrahebhyaschaivam. 
Just as you find out from Janmalagna, particulars about 
children, so also inquire into. the 5th house by considering 
Upapada and its lord, and Putra Karakamsa Rasi and its lord. 
SU. 32. Bhratrubhyam sanirahubhyam bhralrunasaha. 
If Sani and Rahu occupy the 11th or the 3rd from Upapada and 
its lord, the elder and the younger brothers die respectively. 
SU. 33. Sukrenavyavahitagarbhanasaha: 
If Sukra joins the 3rd or the 11th. from Upapada and its lord, the 
younger and the elder brothers will die. 
SU. 34. Pitrubhave sukradrishtepi. 
If the Lagna or the 8th house from it has the aspect of Sukra, 
loss must be predicted for elder and younger brothers.  
SU. 35. Kujagurzichandrabudhalrbahu bhrataraha. 
If the 11th and 3rd from Upapada and its lord are joined by Kuja, 
Guru, Chandra and Budha, the person will have many brothers, 
elder and younger included. 
SU. 36. Sanyarobhyam drishte yathaswam bhratrunasaha. 
If the 3rd and 11th from Upapada have the aspect of Sani and 
Kuja, the person will have his brothers destroyed. 
SU. 37. Sanina swamatraseshascha. 
If the 3rd and 11th from Upapada and its lord are aspected by 
Sani he person will lose all his brothers and sisters and he will 
remain alone. 
SU. 38. Kethau bhagineebahti lyam. 
If the 3rd and 11th from Upapada and its lord has the 
conjunction of Ketu, the person will have many sisters.

--- PAGE 27 of 45 ---
27 
 
SU. 39. Labhesadbhagyabheh rahau damstra van. 
If Rahu joins the 2nd from the 7th from Upapada, the person 
will have large teeth or no teeth or will become dumb. 
SU. 40. Kethau stabdhavak. 
If Ketu joins the 2nd house from the 7th from Upapada, the 
person will be an indistinct speaker or possesses bad 
pronunciation. .He may also have stammering. 
SU. 41. Mande Kuroopaha. 
If Sani joins the 2nd house from the lord of the 7th house from 
Upapada, the person becomes ugly and repulsive. 
SU. 42. Swamsavasadgowraneelapeetadivarnaha. 
The colour or complexion of the person, yellow dark, golden or 
white must be predicted from the nature of the Navamsa 
occupied by the Atmakaraka. 
SU. 43. Amaryanucharaddevatabhaktihi. 
Take the planet next in degrees to Amatya. karaka and find out 
from him the religious tendencies of the person. 
SU. 44. Swaritse kevalapapasambandheparajataha. 
If evil planets occupy Atmakarakamsa Rasi, the person will be 
born of adultery. 
SU. 45. Notrapapath. 
If the Atmakaraka is himself evil and other evil planets are not 
with him, then the evil in the above sutra should not be 
attributed. 
SU. 46. Sanirahubhyam prasiddhihi. 
If Sani and Rahu are in conjunction with Atmakarakamsa Rasi, 
the person will become a notorious rake. 
SU. 47. Gopanamanyebhyaha. 
If in the Atmakarakamsa other evil planets than Sani and Rahu 
are conjoined, the person will not be born to another's seed, but 
his mother will be immoral. 
SU. 48. Shubhavarge apavadamatram. 
If shubha Shadwarga arises in the Atmakarakamsa in the above-
mentioned yogas, there will be scandal about his legitimacy but 
he will be really born of his father's seed. 
SU. 49.-Dvigrahe kulamukhyaha.  
If there are two planets in the Atmakarakamsa, the person will 
become a leader in his community.

--- PAGE 28 of 45 ---
Adhyaya 2 – Pada 1 
SU. 1. Aayuh pitrudinesabhyam. 
Longevity of a person has to be determined with reference to 
Lagna and the 8th from it. 
SU. 2. Prathamayonittarayorva deergham. 
If the lords of the 1st and 8th are in movable or common signs or 
if one of them is in a movable and the other in a common sign, 
there will be longevity. 
SU. 3. Prathamadwiteeyayorantayorva madhyam. 
If the lords of the 1st and 8th are found in Chara and Sthira Rasis-
movable and fixed-or if both of them are in double bodied signs, 
there will be middle life. 
SU. 4. Madhyayoradyantayorva heenam. 
If the lords of the 1st and 8th are found in fixed signs or one in 
Chara and other in Dwiswabhava, there will be short life. In the 
second sutra the last portion repeats the same idea. 
SU. 5. Evam mandachandrabhyam. 
The rules he has given in the first four sutras must also be, 
applied to Chandra Lagna and the Lagna. 
SU. 6. Pitrukalatascha. 
Long, middle and short lives may also be ascertained from Lagna 
and Hora Lagna. 
SU. 7. Sam vadatpramanyam. 
Whichever longevity is determined by the greater number of 
combinations of planets, that term of life should be predicted and 
it will happen certainly. 
SU. 8. yisamvade piitrukalataha. 
If three terms of life are indicated by the three systems, then the 
terms obtained by the Lagna and Hora Lagna should be preferred 
and accepted. 
SU. 9. Pitrulabhage chandre chandramandabhyam. 
If Chandra is in the 7th from Janma Lagna then the longevity 
obtained from the lord of these two must be taken as the definite 
term of a man's life. 
SU. 10. Sanow yoga.hetou kakshyahrasaha. 
If in the above combinations Sani causes the Purnayuryoga, then 
place it as Madhyayuryoga. If he causes Madhyayuryoga, then put

--- PAGE 29 of 45 ---
it in Alpa and if he causes Alpa, then consider it as still less and 
predict very early death. 
SU. 11. Vipareetamityanye. 
Some others are of opinion that when the longevity is caused by 
Sani there; should be no Kakshya Hrasa or deduction or 
degradation. They mean that the term indicated by Sani should 
hold good. 
SU. 12. Na swarkshathungage saure. 
If Sani causing longevity occupies his own or exalted house, 
Kakshya Hrasa-or reduction should not be applied. 
SU. 13. Kevalpapadrigyogini cha. 
If Sani, causing longevity, has many evil aspects and conjunction, 
then, Kakshya. Hrasa should not be predicted. 
SU. 14. Pitrulabhage gurow kevala shubhadrigyogini cha 
kakshyavriddhihi. 
If Guru occupies the Lagna or the 7th has no evil conjunctions or 
aspects, but beneficial aspects and conjunctions, he will cause 
increase or Kakshyavriddhi. 
SU. 15. Maline dwarabahye na vamse n idhanam 
dwaradwaresayoscha malinye. 
If Dwarabahya Rasis are malefic signs or if malefics occupy these 
Dwarabahya Rasis, or if the lord of Dwarabahya Rasi is a malefic, 
death will happen in the Navamsa Dasas of such Dwarabahya 
Rasis. 
SU. 16. Shubhadrigyoganna. 
If to the Dwarabahya Rasis, and the Rasi occupied by 
Dwarabahya there are beneficial aspects and conjunctions; there 
will be no death in the Navamsa periods of those Rasis. 
SU. 17. Rogese- tunge navamsavriddhihi. 
If the lord of the 8th from Lagna joins exaltation, there will be 
increase of life in the Dasa of the Navamsa thus averting the 
death indicated in the above combinations. 
SU. 18. Tatrapi padesadasante padanavamsadasayam 
pitrudinesatrikone va. 
If there is an increase of; life as per Sutra 17, then death will 
happen in Navamsa Dasa of the Rasi occupied by 
Arudhalagnadhipathi; in the Dasas of Rasis which are in trikona 
to lords of Lagna and 8th ; in the Navamsa Dasa of the Rasi 
containing Arudha Lagna.

--- PAGE 30 of 45 ---
3 
 
SU. 19. Pitrulobharogesapranini kantcrkadisthe swatoschaivam 
thridha. 
If the lord of the 8th from Lagna and the lord of the 8th from the 
7th from Lagna are powerful and occupy Kendras, Panaparas and 
Apoklimas, then they cause long, middle and short lives 
respectively. 
SU. 20. Yogatsame swasmin vipareetam. 
If Atmakaraka joins the 7th from - the 7th (Lagna), the meaning 
conveyed in Sutra 19 will have to be differently interpreted. 
SU. 21. Rasitaha pranaha. 
The strength of the Rasis must be properly ascertained. 
SU. 22. Rogesayoh swata aikye yoge va madhyam. 
If the 8th houses from Lagna and the 7th are joined by their 
Karakas or if they happen to be themselves Karakas, if the lords 
of the 8th house from Lagna and the 7th are occupying Kendras, 
Panaparas or Apoklimas, then the terms of life ascertained from 
the combinations shown in Sutra 19 will have to be reduced. 
SU. 23. Pitrulabhayoh papamadhyatwe kone papayoge va 
kakshyahrasaha. 
If Lagna and 7th from it lie between evil planets, or if evil planets 
are in the Trikonas from Lagna arid Saptama, Kakshyahrasa or 
deductions and additions must be made for terms of life which 
are obtained by planetary positions. 
SU. 24. Swasminnapyevam. 
If the Karaka is between the evil planets or evil planets conjoin 
the Trikonas from him, Kakshyahrasa should be made. 
SU. 25. Thasminpape neeche-atunge-ashubhasamyukte cha. 
If the Karaka joins Neecha or does not join the exaltation or if he 
is not in conjunction with benefics, Kakshyahrasa should be 
made. 
SU. 26. Anyadanya tha. 
If Lagna and Saptama (7th) or if Karaka and the 7th from him are 
between beneficial planets or if the Trikonas from Janma and 
Karaka Lagnas are occupied by benefics, if the Karaka happens to 
be a benefic, if he is in exaltation and not in debilitation or has 
beneficial conjunction, there should be no Kakshyahrasa made. 
SU. 27. Gurou cha. 
If Guru happens to be Karaka and has evil planets in 2nd, 12th, 
6th and 8th and in the houses forming Trikonas from him or has 
evil planets with him or he is not in exaltation or joins Neecha

--- PAGE 31 of 45 ---
Rasi, Kakshyahrasa should be made. And in cases where these 
combinations are reversed increase must be predicted. 
SU. 28. Purnendusukrayorekarasivriddhihi. 
If Purna Chandra and Sukra become Karakas and occupy the 
positions named in the above sutras, they will give an increase of 
one Rasi Dasa. 
SU. 29. Sanau vipareetham. 
If Sani becomes Karaka and is found in the places named in the 
previous sutras, he causes Kakshyahrasa in the earlier Dasa than 
tha maraka. 
SU. 30. Sthiradasayam yathakhandam nidha nam. 
Three sections for Ayurbhava or longevity have been explained, 
viz., long, middle and short lives: In the Sthira Dasa suppose the 
term of - life is settled as middle. If a death-inflicting planet or 
Dasa comes in the period of Alpayu, the person will not die, but 
will suffer sickness and misery at the time. 
SU.  31. Tatrarkshaviseshaha. 
In the matter of death, note the peculiarity of the Rasi. That is 
death will happen in the Dasa of the Marana Karaka Rasi. 
SU. 32. Papamadhye papakone ripturogayoh pape va. 
If the Dasa is between malefics or has evil planets in its Trikonas, 
or has evil planets in 12 and 8, such a Dasa will cause death to the 
person. 
SU. 33. Tadeesayoho kevalaksheenendusukradrishtow va. 
If the lords of the 12th and 8th are aspected by Ksheenachandra 
and Sukra, the Dasa of the 12th or 8th will inflict death. 
SU. 34. Tatrapyadyarksharinathadrisyannvabhagadva. 
Of the Rasi Dasas which have the power to cause death, death is 
likely to happen in the first Rasi Dasa and the sub-period of Rasi 
of the Navamsa Rasi which is aspected by the planet who is lord 
of the 6th from the Rasi whose Dasa is the first. 
SU. 35. Pitrulabhabhavesapranee rudraha. 
Whoever is stronger among the lords of the 8th from Lagna he 
gets the name. of Rudra. 
SU. 36. Apranyapi papadrishtaha. 
If the weaker among the lords of the two houses, 8th from Lagna 
and 7th, is aspected by malefics, he will also get the name of 
Rudra.

--- PAGE 32 of 45 ---
5 
 
SU. 37. Pranini subhadrishte rudrasulanthamvyuhu. 
If the powerful Rudra is aspected by benefics, death may be 
predicted in the Rudra Rasi, or in the periods of its Trikona Rasis 
1, 5 and 9. 
SU. 38. Tatrapi subhayogay. 
Even, if the weaker of. the planets, when he has evil aspects get 
the name of Rudra, has beneficial conjunctions or aspects he will 
extend the length of life, to the Rudra Rasi Dasa or the Dasas 5th 
and 9th from it. 
SU. 39. yyarkapapayoge na. 
The above results should not be predicted if other planets than 
the Sun, should be in the 5th and 9th from the two Rudras. 
SU. 40. Mandarendudrishtesubhayogabhave papayogepi va 
shubhadrishtow va parataha. 
If the two Rudras become evil, death will come in the first Shoola 
Dasa; if one of them becomes evil, death will happen in the 
second Shoola Dasa; and if both of them are favourable, death 
will come in the last of the 3rd Shoola Dasa. 
SU. 41. Rtudrasrayepi prayena. 
Death may happen sometimes in the Rasi Dasa occupied by 
Rudra. 
SU. 42. Kriye pitari viseshena. 
If the Lagna falls in Kriya or Mesha, death often takes place in the 
Rudra Dasa. 
SU. 43. Pratjhamamadhyamottanteshu va tattadayusham. 
To persons having short, middle and long lives, death happens in 
the first, second and third Shoola Rasi Dasas. 
SU. 44. Swabhaveso maheswvaraha. 
The lord of 8th house from Atmakaraka goes under the name of 
Maheswara. 
SU. 45. Swochhe swabhe ripubhavesapranee. 
If the lord of the 8th from Atmakaraka is exalted or is in his own 
house, then the stronger of the two, viz., the lords of the 8th. and 
12th from the Karaka will also go under the name of Maheswara. 
SU. 46. Patabhyam yoge swasya tayor va roge tataha. 
If Atmakaraka has conjunction with Rahu or Ketu, or if the 8th 
from Atmakaraka has conjunction with Rahu or Ketu, then the 
6th planet counting regularly from the Sun will become 
Maheswara.

--- PAGE 33 of 45 ---
SU. 47. Prabhubhavavaireesapranee pitrulabhapranyanucltaro 
vishamastha brahma. 
Find out which is the stronger of the two Rasis Lagna and 
Saptama or 7th. Then find out which of the lords of the 6th, 8th 
and 12th from it is stronger, and if he occupies an odd sign in the 
Parswa Rasis from the stronger of Lagna or Saptama, (7th), he 
will be named as the Brahma planet. 
SU. 48. Brahmani sanaupatayorva tataha. 
If Sani, Rahu or Ketu becomes Brahma, the 6th planet from him 
will be designated as Brahma in which case the other three will 
not have the Brahma power. 
SU. 49. Bahurnam yoge swajateeyaha. 
If many get the powers of Brahma (say three or four planets at a 
time), then that planet becomes Brahma who is next in degree to 
Atmakaraka. 
SU. 50. Rahuyoge vipareetam. 
When Rahu also gets Brahmatwa, then the conditions will be 
reversed 
SU. 51. Brahma swabhaveso bhavasthaha. 
The lord of the 8th from Atmakaraka as also the planet who 
occupies that house becomes Brahma. 
SU. 52. yivade balee. 
Between the, two planets the lord of the 8th from Atmakaraka 
and the planet who joins the 8th, the stronger of the two becomes 
Brahma. 
SU. 53. Brahmano yavanmaheswararkshadasantamayuhu. 
The longevity extends through the Rasis commencing from 
Brahma and counting up to the Rasi containing Maheswara. 
SU. 54. Tatrapi maheswarabhavesatrikonabde. 
The period of death must be determined thus, Maheswara will be 
in a sign. Take the Dasa of this Rasi, take the lord of 8th house 
from Maheswara. Take the Trikonas from him, viz., 1, 5 and 9. 
Predict death in the Antardasa of any one of these Dasas which is 
strong enough to inflict death. 
SU. 55. Swakarmachittaripuroganathapranee marakha. 
The strongest among the lords of 3, 6,12 and 8 from the 
Atmakaraka will inflict death. 
SU. 56. Thadrukshadasayam nidhanam. 
Death will happen in the Rasi Dasa occupied by the maraka 
planet or in the Dasa of the Rasi of which he is the lord.

--- PAGE 34 of 45 ---
7 
 
SU. 57. Tatrapi kaladripurogachittnnathapahare. 
Take Atmakaraka. Find out the 7th from him. Take Ripu, Roga, 
Chitta or 12, 8 and 6th from it. The lords of these occupy some 
houses. Death may happen in the Dasas of such signs or the Dasas 
of the houses owned by these lords.

--- PAGE 35 of 45 ---
Adhaya 2 – Pada 2 
SU. 1. Ravisukrayoh pranee janakaha. 
Out of Venus and the Sun, the stronger will become the maraka 
for father. 
SU. 2. Chandraarayorjanee. 
The stronger of the two planets Chandra and Kuja will kill the 
mother. 
SU. 3. Apranyapi papadrishtah. 
Among the four planets Ravi, Sukra, Chandra and Kuja whoever is 
weak and possesses evil aspects will cause the death of father 
and mother. 
SU. 4. Pranini shubhadrishte tatchule nidha nam matapitroh. 
If, among the planets named above Ravi, Sukra, Chandra and 
Kuja, whoever has got beneficial aspects, the death of father and 
mother must be predicted in the Shoola Dasa-1st. 5th or 9th Rasi 
Dasa from the powerful planet. 
SU. 5 and 6. (5) Tadbhavese spashtabale. (6) Thatchuila ityanye. 
If the lord of the 8th from the lords of father and mother is 
powerful, then the period of the Shoola Rasis from him will inflict 
death on the father and the mother. 
SU. 7. Ayushi chanyat. 
As deaths have to be predicted for father and mother by their 
Karakas, similarly events have to be predicted for others from 
their Karakas and the Shoola Dasas from them. 
SU. 8. Arkagnayoge tadasrithe kriye lagna meshadasayam 
piturityeke: 
If the 12th house from Lagna falls in any one of these three signs, 
viz., Mithuna, Simha or Kanya and has the conjunction of Ravi 
and Budha, death happens in the Dasa of the 5th from it. 
SU. 9. yyarkapapamatradrish tayoht pitroh pragdwadasabdat. 
Whether the lords of father and mother are powerful or 
powerless, if they have the aspects of evil planets other than the 
Sun, the death of father and mother may be predicted before the 
12th year of a person's age. 
SU. 10. Gurusule kalatrasya. 
The Dasas of 1st, 5th or 9th Rasis from the position of Guru will 
cause the death of his wife.

--- PAGE 36 of 45 ---
9 
 
SU. 11. Thattatchoole tesham. 
Death will happen to children, uncles, etc., in the Dasas of 1st, 5th 
and 9th Rasis from the Karakas who govern those events. 
SU. 12. Karmani papayutadrishte dushtam maranam. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has the aspect or conjunction of 
evil planets, death will be painful and troublesome. 
SU. 13. Subham subhadrishtiyute. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has beneficial aspects or 
conjunctions, death will be easy from slight complaints. 
SU. 14. Misre misram. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has mixed aspects and 
conjunctions, death will be neither very difficult nor very easy. 
SU. 15. Adityena rajamoolath. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or the Karaka is connected with Ravi, death 
comes to the person through the kingly or Government 
displeasure. 
SU. 16. Ghandrena yakshmanah. 
If Chandra occupies or aspects the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka, the 
person will die through consumption or Tuberculosis. 
SU. 17. Kujena.vranasastragnidahadyaihi. 
If Mars occupies or aspects the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka, the 
person dies by wounds, injuries, fire and weapons. 
SU. 18.-Sanina vatarogat.  
If Sani is aspecting or combining with the 3rd from Lagna or 
Karaka, death comes through windy complaints. 
SU. 19. Mundamandibhyam vishasarpaja lodbandhanadibhihi. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka is occupied by Sani and Gulika, 
the person will die from the effects of poison, from snakes; from 
chains and shakles and from water. 
SU. 20. Kethtina vishucheejalarogadyaihi. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka is occupied or aspected by Ketu, 
the person dies from contageous, watery and epidemic 
complaints. 
SU. 21. Chandramandibhyam poogamandannakabaladibh ih kshan 
ikam. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has the con. junction of Chandra 
and Gulika, death will result immediately from eating hard meals, 
food end other indigestible articles.

--- PAGE 37 of 45 ---
SU. 22. Gunina sopharuchivimanadyaihi. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka is combined by Guru, the death 
will be caused by dropsy, disgust for food, melancholy and other 
complaints. 
SU. 23. Sukrena mehat. 
If the 3rd is aspected or joined by Sukra from Lagna or Karaka, 
death will result from venereal complaints. 
SU. 24. Misrem israt. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has the conjunction or aspect of 
many planets, then the death will come from various diseases. 
SU. 25. Chandradrugyogannischayena. 
It Chandra aspects or joins the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka along 
with other planets, death is certain to happen from the causes 
named in the previous sutras. 
SU. 26. Subhaihi subhadese. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has beneficial aspects or 
conjunctions, death happens in good or holy places. 
SU. 27. Papaih keekate. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has evil aspects or conjunctions, 
death will happen in vicious or sinful countries and places. 
SU. 28. Gurusukrabhyam gnanapurvakam. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka has the conjunction or aspect of 
Guru and Sukra, the person dies with consciousness unimpaired. 
SU. 29. A nyairanyatha. 
If the 3rd from Lagna or Karaka is aspected or joined by other 
planets, unconsciousness prevails at death. 
SU. 30. Lepantikhaparmadhye sanirahuketubhihi pitrorna 
samskartha. 
If Sani and Rahu or Sani and Ketu are in conjunction between the 
1st and 12 houses, the person will not perform the obsequies of 
his parents. 
SU. 31. Lepvdipurvardhe janakadyaparardhe. 
If Rahu and Sani are found in conjunction in the first 6 houses 
from Lagna, the death ceremonies for the mother will not be 
performed. If they are found in the next 6 houses, viz., from 7th to 
12th houses the ceremonies for the father will not be performed. 
SU. 32. Subhadrigyoganna. 
If Sani and Rahu or Sani and Ketu have beneficial aspects or 
conjunctions these evil results should not be predicted.

--- PAGE 38 of 45 ---
11

--- PAGE 39 of 45 ---
Adhaya 2 – Pada 3 
SU. 1. yishame tadadirnavamamsah. 
If the birth falls in an odd sign, the Navamsa Dasas commence 
from it. 
SU. 2. Anyatha darsadihi. 
In the even signs the Navamsa Dasas commence from the 
Abhimukha Rasis.  
SU. 3. Sasinandapnvnkah kramadabdajz sthziraldasayam. 
In the Sthira or fixed sign Dasa, the movable sign Dasa will be 7. 
the fixed Dasa will be 8 years and the Dasa of the common Rasi 
will extend to 9 years. 
SU. 4 Brahmadiresha. 
The Sthira Dasa commences from the Rasi occupied by Brahma. 
SU. 5. Atha pranah. 
Jaimini now begins to explain the strength of the planets and the 
Rasis. Prana, here as well as in the previous sutras, means 
sources of strength the planet and the signs get. 
SU. 6. Karakayogah prathamo bhanam. 
That Rasi or sign becomes the strongest, which has the 
conjunction of Atmakaraka. 
SU. 7. Saamye bhuyasa. 
If other sources of strength are equal, then the conjunction of 
larger number of planets gives greater strength. 
SU. 8. Thathastungadih. 
If these sources of strength are equal, then exaltation, friendly 
houses, and Moolatrikonas give them vitality. 
SU. 9. Nisargasthathah. 
Then the Nisarga or permanent sources of strength must be 
considered. 
SU. 10. Thadabhave swamin ithham bhavah. 
If the Rasi has one of the Karakadi sources of strength, then its 
power will be that which its lord possesses from the associations 
of Karaka, etc. 
SU. 11. Agrayatto visesliath. 
According to the Jaimini Sutras the planets which gets the highest 
number of degrees among others will become the most powerful.

--- PAGE 40 of 45 ---
13 
 
SU. 12. Prativesikah purushe. 
In the odd sign, it gets strength from the planets who occupy the 
12th and 2nd from it. 
SU. 13. Ithi prathamah. 
The sources of strength named in the above sutras will be the 
first set of inquiry into the powers of a Rasi or its lord. 
SU. 14. Swami gurugnadrigyogo dwiteeyah. 
The second set of strength for a Rasi is derived by the aspect of 
its own lord, Jupiter or Mercury. 
SU. 15. Swuminastruteeyah. 
The third set of strength for the lord will be the one to be detailed 
below. 
SU. 16. Swatswaminah kantakadishwaparadourbalyam. 
Those planets who are in Kendras, Panaparas and Apoklimas 
from the Atmakaraka become more and more powerless than 
him. 
SU. 17. Chaturthah purushe. 
If the lord of the Rasi falling in Purusha Rasi (odd sign) has evil 
conjunctions and aspects, this will become the 4th source of 
strength to the Rasi. 
SU. 18. Pitrulabhaprathamapranyadi shooladasa niryane. 
Take the stronger out of the two 1st and 7th. Then from the 
stronger of these two, take the Shoola Dasas, viz., 1, 5 and 9. Find 
out which of these Shoola Rasis becomes the strongest. Then 
ascribe the death period to it as certain. 
SU. 19. Pitrulabhaputrapranyadih pituh. 
Putra 9, Pa 1, Ra 2=12, reversed it means 21, divided by 12, we 
have the balance 9, hence the 9th house is meant. Take the Lagna 
and 7th and find out the 9th houses from them. Whichever is 
stronger in these two ninth houses, take that and find out their 
Shoola Dasas and prescribe death to father in the most 
unfavourable of these Shoola Dasas, viz., 1, 5 and 9.  
SU. 20. Adarsadirnmatuh. 
Take the most powerful in 1 or 7. Take the 4th from it and find 
the Shoola Dasas from it, whichever is the most powerful among 
the 1st, 5th or 9th predict death to the mother in that Dasa. 
SU. 21. Karmadirbhrathuh. 
Take the 3rd from Lagna or the 7th whichever is stronger, and 
ascribe death to brothers and sisters in the most powerful of the 
Shoola Dasas from it.

--- PAGE 41 of 45 ---
SU. 22. Matradirbjhngirteeputr ryolt. 
Take the Lagna or the 7th whichever is stronger and find the 5th 
from it. Sons and sisters will die in the most cruel of the Shoola 
Dasas from the above 5th house. 
SU. 23. vyayadirjaishtasya. 
Take the 11th from Lagna or 7th whichever is stronger, and 
predict death to elder brothers in the most unfavourable Shoola 
Dasa from it. 
SU. 24. Pitruvatpitruvarge. 
Take the stronger of the two Lagnas and the 7th. Find out the 9th 
from it. From this take the Shoola Dasas and predict death to 
paternal uncles, etc., in the evil period among them. 
SU. 25. Brahmadih purushe sama dasanthah. 
If the Lagna falls in a purusha or masculine Rasi, the Dasas or 
periods commence from the sign occupied by the Brahma. The 
extent of the Rasi Dasa is thus determined. Take the 6th from the 
Dasa Rasi. Find out the number of the house the lord of it 
occupies and that number will be the extent in years of that Dasa. 
SU. 26. Sthana vyathikarah. 
When the Janma Lagna falls in an odd sign, the Dasas commence 
from the Rasi occupied by Brahma in regular order. If the Lagna 
falls in an even sign, then the Dasas commence regularly from the 
7th house from Brahma. 
SU. 27. Papadrigyogastungadigrahayogah. 
The conjunctions and aspects of malefics are a source of strength 
for the Rasis. So also is added another source of strength to (the 
Rasi) by planets (situated there) being in exaltation, 
Moolatrikona and very friendly and friendly houses. 
SU. 28. Panchame padu kramat prakpratynktvam. 
If the 9th from Lagna happens to be incorporated in an odd sign, 
take the Rasi Dasas in the regular order. If it happens to be 
incorporated in an even sign, take the Rasi Dasas in the inverse 
order or backwards. The commencement of the Dasa should be 
from the Lagna. Ketu in these cases is considered as a benefic.

--- PAGE 42 of 45 ---
15 
 
Adhaya 2 – Pada 4 
SU. 1.Dwiteeyam bhavaphalam charanavamse. 
In the Navamsa Dasa of Chara Rasi the significations of the 
second house must be explained in the manner given in Sutra 14 
of the previous section. 
SU. 2. Dasasrayo dwaram. 
The Rasi which commences the Dasa or period is called the 
Dwara Rasi or the door for the subsequent Rasi Dasas. 
SU. 3. Thathastavatitham bahyam. 
Count as many signs from Dwara Rasi as Dwara Rasi is removed 
from Lagna. This will be the Bhoga Rasi. 
SU. 4. Tayoh pape bandharogadi. 
If evil planets are found in the Paka and Bhoga signs, the person 
will suffer from imprisonment Chains. diseases and other mental 
and physical troubles. 
SU. 5. Swarksheasya thasminnopajeevasya. 
If the evil planets in the two Rasis happen to be in their own 
houses or are very close to Guru, then the evil results foretold in 
Sutra 4 will not happen. 
SU. 6. Bhagrahayogoktam sarvamasmin. 
The results in these Dasas will have to be foretold, by the 
strength of the planets and by the sources of strength and 
weakness of the Paka and Bhoga Rasis. 
SU. 7. Pitrulabhapranithoyam. 
These results have to be carefully predicted from Lagna or the 
7th, whichever is the stronger of the two. For males preference 
should be given to Lagna and for females the 7th should be 
preferred provided it is strong. 
SU. 8. Prathame prakprathyaktvam. 
If the Dasa commences with a movable sign or Chandra Rasi, then 
the order of the Rasi Dasas will be regular in a horoscope. 
SU. 9. Diwiteeye ravitah. 
If the Dasa commences in the fixed sign or Sthira Rasi, then the 
6th and 7th, etc., from it will be the successive Dasas. 
SU. 10. Pruthakramena thriteeye chatushtayadi. 
If the Dasa Rasi commences in a common sign, then the 
successive Rasi Dasas will be determined by the Kendra, 
Panapara and Apoklima Rasis from it.

--- PAGE 43 of 45 ---
SU. 11. Swakendrasthadyah swamino navamsanam. 
Those who are in Kendras, Pariaparas and Apoklimas from the 
Karaka become the lords of the Navamsa Dasas. 
SU. 12. Pitruchatushtayavaishambalastayah sthitah. 
Those Rasis which are in Kendras from Lagna furnish the first 
Dasa. 
SU. 13. Sa tallabhayoravirrtate. 
The Karaka will be moving between the Lagna and the 7th. 
SU. 14. Swamibalaphalani cha prugvath. 
The results of all these will be determined, as detailed in the 
previous sutras, by the examination of the sources of strength 
and weakness to the planets, to the lords of the Dasas and to the 
Rasis. 
SU. 15. Sthuladarsa vaishamyasrayo mandukastrikutah. 
As the Manduka or frog jumps from place to place, the two 
systems of Dasas named by Jaimini in the previous sutras, viz., 
Kendra, Panapara and Apoklima, and the movable, fixed and 
double bodied signs, also jump from house to house and hence he 
calls them Manduka Dasas. 
SU. 16. Niryanalabhadi shooladasa phale. 
In predicting results the 7th from the Niryanashoola Dasa should 
be taken into first account. 
SU. 17. Purushe samah samanyatah. 
If the Arambha or commencing. Dasa falls in Purusha Rasi or 
masculine sign, then the subsequent Rasi Dasas will be counted 
regularly and each Dasa gets 9 years only. 
SU. 18.-Siddha ududaye. 
Dasas counted from the constellations at birth have to be learned 
and taken from Parasara, Gargi, Vyasa and other well-known 
writers. 
SU. 19. Jagattasthushorardham yogardhe. 
The extent of Yogardhadasa will be half of the two Dasas 
combined from the Chara and Sthira Rasis. 
SU. 20. Sthuladarsa vaishamyasrayametat. 
Yogardhadasa begins either from Lagna or the 7th-house 
whichever is stronger. 
SU. 21. Kujadi strikuta padakramena drigdasa. 
Drigdasas are formed commencing with the 9th from Lagna, 
according to trikonarupa pada.

--- PAGE 44 of 45 ---
17 
 
SU. 22 & 23. Matrudharmayoh samanyam 
vipareethamojakutayoh. Yatha samanyam. 
Those born in even signs will have the results as described in the 
previous sutras about the Trikona Dasa. 
SU. 24. Pitnimatru dharmapranyadistrikone. 
Among the Trikonas, the Rasi Dasa commences with the 
strongest among them. 
SU. 25. Tatra dwarabahyabhyam tadwat. 
The results which have been ascribed to Dwarabahya Rasis 
should also be predicted to the Trikona Dasas. 
SU. 26. Dhasagairikatpatneekaratkarakaih phaladesah. 
Results must be predicted from the Karakas or lords of events 
and also from the first, third, seventh and the ninth Rasis. 
SU. 27. Tararkamse mandaaadyo dasesah. 
Divide the birth constellation into twelve equal parts 
corresponding to twelve signs and find out to which division the 
time of birth corresponds. The lord of the Rasi corresponding to 
this division becomes the lord of the commencing Dasa. 
SU. 28. Tasminnuchhe neeche va shreemantah. 
If in the example given in the above sutra the lord of the Rasi 
Dasa is in exaltation or debilitation the person becomes wealthy 
and influential. 
SU. 29. Swamitrabhe kinchit. 
If in such a Lagna, its lord occupies a friendly sign the wealth will 
be moderate. 
SU. 30. Dugathoaparatah. 
If the lord of Lagna above mentioned is not as stated previously, 
the person becomes poor and wretched. 
SU. 31. Swavaishamye yathaswam kramavyuthkramau. 
If the Karaka occupies the odd sign, then proceed for the 
subsequent Dasas in the regular way, but when he is in an even 
sign, then go back-wards for the Rasi Dasas. 
SU. 32. Saumye vipareetam. 
If the Karaka Rasi falls in even signs, then count backwards. 
SU. 33. Thathatsanavapi veditavyamityeke acharya vadanti. 
Some Acharyas say that all the results which have been ascribed 
to planets and signs in the previous sutras may also be predicted 
with reference to Sani and his position.

--- PAGE 45 of 45 ---
SU. 34. Antarbhuktyamsayoretat. 
These details above mentioned in the various sutras should also 
be ascribed to the Antardasas or sub-periods among the major 
Dasas in the forward and backward countings. 
SU. 35. Shubha dasa shubhayute dhamnyuchhe. 
If the Rasi has beneficial aspects and conjunctions, or if its lord 
has similar sources of strength or is exalted, then all the results 
will be beneficial. 
SU. 36. Anyathanyatha. 
When the above conditions are not present, the results will be 
quite the contrary. 
SU. 37. Siddhamanyat. 
Jaimini says that all the principles explained in this work are 
truth propounded in other works and therefore they hold good in 
all calculations and predictions.